UrbanClap has three user types on its platforms, which are:

The admin
Service provider
Customer

The three work in the following way to make business operations possible:

Service providers register on the platform, create profiles applies for approval by admin. Once admin approves service provider it will go live.
Customers browse a home service and enter the time slot for booking
The service provider contacts the customer one-hour before the service for further coordination
After the service provider has completed the service they will update the service as completed, once customer accepts completion on their app the service assumes as completed.
The service provider collects the entire payment and keeps it himself/herself. In case of online payment, payments will be transferred to service provider eod after deducting minimal gateway charges. 

Also, UrbanClap does not share the personal details of customers (such as phone number and address) until one hour before the booked slot for security reasons.

--------------------------------------
Revenue Model of UrbanClap

The most significant source of income for UrbanClap is its subscription charge. The company offers a subscription fee on month and year basis.

Service Provider Subscription

--------------------------------------
Features to Look for in an On-Demand Services Marketplace

Admin Management Features

Listing Management
Order Management
Manage Service Providers
User Profile Management
Portal Management
Notifications Management
Subscription Management (paid by service providers)
Payment Management (demo)


Service Provider Features
Registration and Login
Profile settings
Order Management

Features for Customers
Registration and Login
Search
Booking Management
Customer Support
Review and Rating

-------------------------------------------

Features required in UrbanClap:

1) Login / Register

2) Services Approval

3) Customer Request Approval

4) Advanced Notification System

5) Communication System

6) Payment Records

7) Customer Feedback

8) Dashboard System

9) Manage Service Providers

------------------------------------------------

Here are some key tech components they might use:

Mobile and Web Applications:
- Frontend Technologies: React-native
- Backend Technologies: spring boot (java)

Database Management:
- MySQL.
Payment Processing:
- just demo show.
Geolocation Services:
- APIs from Go-Maps for location tracking, service area mapping, and navigation.
Communication Tools:
- In-app messaging or notification systems for real-time communication between service providers and customers.
